[ Silence ]
[ Music ]
>> Regina: James I'm so happy
you could join me [chuckle] here
in Sedona.
There's been a lot going on.
We're in a really potent
period of time and Sedona seems
to be the hot spot on the
planet at this moment.
And we will get into
that in a little bit
but first let's let
our viewers get
to know you a little bit better.
And you're a geologist.
[Inaudible] you've been all over
the world in strange situations.
You've lived in Brazil.
You've been into
crystals from a youth
in Arkansas your entire life.
And so you understand the earth,
its minerals, gemstones, energy,
lay lines, sacred spaces.
And we're going to talk about
a bit off all of it today.
So first give us an
idea of how you got
onto your spiritual path.
You were raised in a Baptist
community in Arkansas.
Right?
>> James: Yes, thank you Regina.
And first let me thank you
for the opportunity to be here
and it's lovely to speak
with you and meet you.
But yes, I grew up in the --
in Arkansas which happens to
be the largest singular deposit
of quartz crystal on the planet.
And I always had a fascination
for rocks, and for minerals
and basically lived in
a cornucopia of quartz.
My father was with
the University
of Arkansas Law School.
He was an avid outdoorsman.
He was a fisherman and
we would go to some
of the lakes near our
home that happened
to sit atop crystal beds.
He would fish and I would
drive for quartz crystal...
>> Regina: And they were
just loose on the bottom?
>> James: Absolutely.
>> Regina: Even points
and stuff...
>> James: Small shards.
>> Regina: Little
chunks and shards.
>> James: Points, absolutely.
Perfect points.
>> Regina: Wow.
Okay.
>> James: And extremely
clear and you could --
I could literally fill up a
coffee can of them in a couple
of hours in the summer.
>> Regina: Oh how fun.
>> James: And the water
was crystal clear.
In fact, we went to a place
called Crystal Springs near Hot
Springs National Park
on Lake Washtenaw.
So it's a very special place.
And after I -- and I grew up
in Arkansas, stayed in energy
and after I finished
university and started working
as a geological engineer...
>> Regina: No surprise you were
a geologist after your passion
for crystals and rocks and...
>> James: Well I had always
been absolutely fascinated
with every aspect of the earth.
There's some amazing
geological anomalies in Arkansas
that I didn't truly appreciate
until after I left there.
But after I finished school
I moved to Canada and worked
for about six months
and absolutely fell
in love with Canada.
Brilliant, beautiful,
crisp energy.
And then I was then given
the offer to move to Brazil
and it was a difficult choice
because I'm a bit of a musician
as well, and I had got in
with a band while I was
in Calgary, Alberta.
But I couldn't turn the
opportunity to go to Brazil.
So I soon found myself in
the other largest deposit
of quartz crystal on the
planet and that's Brazil.
And Brazil is an amazing place.
>> Regina: You see now
most people would not think
that the Arkansas deposits
would hold a candle to Brazil
because when you go to gem
and mineral shows its Brazil,
Brazil, Brazilian
crystals everywhere.
But not so?
>> James: Well the largest
singular deposit of quartz
on the planet starts at
about Little Rock, Arkansas
and goes all the way
over to Oklahoma.
It extends about 177 miles.
It's 35 miles wide.
It is the largest...
>> Regina: Single.
>> James: ...singular
unbroken deposit of quartz
on the planet, in the world.
Now Brazil in the state of
[inaudible] and the state
of [inaudible] -- and I lived
in both, have a larger quantity
of quartz but none of
the deposits that are --
none of the singular deposits
are as large as the one
in Arkansas, but Brazil
is the largest miner.
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: The largest producer
and has the largest total
reservoirs of course.
But Arkansas is the
largest singular...
>> Regina: Single.
Okay.
>> James: ...unbroken deposit.
>> Regina: Well thank
you for clarifying.
>> James: And there's
significance for that
in the sense that if
you consider that,
in terms of earth energies.
If you consider that
quartz is piezoelectric
and by piezoelectric it has
some considerable attributes.
It produces a radio wave.
When mechanical pressure
is applied
to quartz it actually
produces an electrical charge.
You may be familiar; on January
1, 2011 there was a topic all
over the national news for a
few days that a great quantity
of blackbirds fell out
of the sky in Arkansas.
>> Regina: Yes, I
do remember that.
>> James: And there
was this great mystery.
And I thought to myself --
I was watching it as a
geologist -- what's the mystery?
I see this all the time
growing up in Arkansas.
>> Regina: Well, what is it?
>> James: Oh because you'd
have new Madrid fault,
and not that other geologists
would necessarily recognize this
but you have the well know new
Madrid fault line that comes
into Arkansas and during 2010,
in fact at our 10/10/10
gathering there were earthquakes
all around the area we were.
And you had a series of earth
quakes before four and five
on the Richter scale
putting mechanical pressure
against the largest single
deposit of quartz on the planet.
So when that mechanical
pressure builds up it's going
to produce an electrical
shock wave.
Black birds, particularly the
type that fell migrate according
to ultraviolet sensors
just as modern butterflies.
And so it's my theory that the
piezoelectric wave temporarily
stunned them and that they
feel from the sky and died
by blunt trauma to the
ground, and because I saw
that happening every
year or so growing up.
Not in that great number
but that sort of thing.
>> Regina: But there was a
particularly large amount
of activity going on
at that exact time.
>> James: At that time
because of the earthquakes.
>> Regina: Right, right.
Right. Adjusting.
>> James: And so you
know the point being
that Arkansas has a third
of the state if not more
with this enormous active
energy of quartz crystal
and quarts is an absolutely
phenomenal mineral.
It produces electricity, it's a
receiver, it is a transmitter.
It has a vibration that Marcel
Vogel pointed out as very,
very closely attuned
to the human vibration.
And so it -- growing up
there it had an effect on me
that I didn't recognize until I
moved to Brazil and met my wife.
And by that time I was
already a rock hound.
I mean as a young man
in Arkansas I would just
find rocks and keep them.
And so when I got to
Brazil I had a house full
of minerals from everywhere.
And Brazil is the absolutely
cornucopia of crystals,
semi-precious, and
precious gem stones.
Between the states of Biea,
Sira and Minas Gerais
almost every precious
and semi-precious mineral
and gem on the planet exists.
And so when I got there I found
myself working as a geologist.
The unique position of receiving
30% of my salary by a decree
that occurred after I had
been there for about a year
in a local currency that's
devalued at 400% per year.
When I arrived in Brazil six
[foreign word] made one dollar.
When I left six and a half years
later 24,000 [foreign word] made
one dollar.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: So you know
you do the math...
>> Regina: It happens.
Yeah.
>> James: ...you
cannot take that money
and put it in the bank.
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: And so I did what
all the other Brazilians do.
They bought gemstones,
gold or property.
I bought gemstones.
And at that time virtually
every Brazilian person
of substance was
a gemstone dealer.
So my landlord in my apartment
started coming to my apartment
and would bring in his little
box of gems and we'd take
that 30% of my salary
and buy gems with it.
And coincidentally I had just
read Edgar Cases' biography
There is a River  by Thomas
Sugar [assumed spelling].
And I had -- and I
tell people that I went
to Brazil a born again Baptist,
and the minute that I read
that book I had that eureka
moment that I had never had
in the Baptist church so to
speak where I understood --
he talked in a wider
perspective of reincarnation,
about the laws of
cause and effect.
And that book beautifully
describes the transition
of a religious Christian
into a wider horizons...
>> Regina: Because he had to go
through that journey himself.
>> James: Through the
difficulties himself.
>> Regina: Yeah, yeah.
>> James: Of trying to make sure
that he wasn't suddenly going
against something that had been
so deeply programed
since childhood.
And I was on the banks of
the Amazon River, literally,
and read that book straight
through and then again.
I was walking on clouds for days
because I'd finally found a
truth that truly resonated and,
you know, the limitations of the
biblical, literal translation
of the Bible left gaps in
my intellectual searching's
and so this filled them.
And so at this point I start --
I was reading everything by
Casey I could get my hands on.
I wasn't particularly interested
in watching Brazilian
television at that time.
And I spend a lot of
time in remote locations
so I started reading
Casey speaking
about the healing properties
and attributes of gem stones.
And it was just a cosmic wake.
I had Jose Luis with mounds
-- I had a table of, you know,
six foot in diameter and I had
a round table in our dining room
and he would literally
fill it with aquamarines,
I mean mounds of Emeralds.
>> Regina: Wow.
>> James: Aquamarines,
amethysts, opal.
A lot of people don't realize
that Brazil produces as much
if not more opal
than Australia does.
And interestingly it
was all Australians
that owned all the mines in
Sira, Brazil when I was there.
So it was part of
expatriate community
and so I became fascinated with
these stones and I was reading
about them at the same time
through the Edgar Casey
Circular files and a few books
that had been written
from his readings.
And Casey spent an
incredible amount
of time recommending
gemstones for people
in their life readings.
>> Regina: Wasn't there a
specific book that was written
that dealt quite
a bit with that?
>> James: By third parties, not
by you know -- not directly --
the ARE originally produced a
few books back in the '70s...
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: ...when I was reading
these that were just sort
of compilations, were --
that had editors as opposed to
writers and there is a female.
I -- her name escapes
me at the moment.
That has recently become
very active in the ARE
and has written two books
about Casey's readings
on gemstones with
interpretations.
>> Regina: Okay, so we'll
have to go do a little search
on that however you're
writing your own book too.
>> James: I am and
I am approaching it
from a little bit
different perspective
and so I hope this -- this
is truly a passion for me
and the writing comes easy.
But I am adding an element
that I don't think has been
taken before on gemstones
and that I take in the geometry
of their molecular structure.
>> Regina: Yeah,
that's interesting
because there are
books on gemstones
and their consciousness
properties and affiliations
with scales of color,
tone, etcetera.
>> James: Right.
>> Regina: But no one's
done that that I know of.
>> James: Well what I'm doing
is taking their hardness,
the most scale of
hardness and using
that to determine the reach
of their energy fields.
I think the more dense, the more
compacted they are determines
to a large degree how much
of a field they cover.
Now Edgar Casey spoke about gems
essentially being tuning forks.
I talk about them being
energies that are libraries
of incredible light
and electricity.
There are more for example
electrons crammed into a diamond
than any other substance
on earth.
And I think it is
the circulation
of the molecular structure
but also the patterning.
Everyone is familiar with
the five platonic solids.
And I believe that each
of the five Platonic solids is
a sacred code that helps us open
up into our spirituality.
Metatron speaks about the
universe being a fabric
of sacred geometry.
Our very molecular structure
in our human bodies...
>> Regina: Absolutely.
>> James: ...is geometric.
Every molecule, every
atom is geometric.
And most of the -- there
are only seven crystalline
structures that occur in all
crystals and in all gemstones.
And all seven of these are
either a direct Platonic solid
or a derivative of
platonic solid
and I think it is the
geometrical pattern
that also influences how
we wear the gemstones,
where we wear the gemstones,
when we wear the gemstones,
and the properties
that they convey to us.
>> Regina: Now okay, let
me ask you a question.
You brought up Metatron
a moment ago.
You've also gotten a lot of
information from Metatron,
as well as certainly the
myriad of Casey readings...
>> James: Yes.
>> Regina: ...over the years.
So let's back up for just
a sec because we're going
to groom this story and
bring it all together
about the exact healing
properties of stones.
Now, how did Metatron come
into your experience in life?
>> James: Well that's
an interesting question,
and I became extremely
metaphysical
when I was living in Brazil.
And for the next 20
years I literally lived
in third world countries
that were not English
and so I had the opportunity
to learn how to speak four
or five other languages.
I speak French, Portuguese,
Spanish and a bit of Russian
and I learned them
because I had to.
I was there and I had no choice.
And that's the way you
really learn a language.
But language -- in an
interesting way my --
I tell people that my life
makes more sense in retrospect
than it did when I
was going through it.
I often thought that I was
on the wrong path and needed
to quite everything and go
join an Ashram in India.
And had I had done that I would
not have had the experiences
that I have now that allow
me to teach what I teach now.
But I began channeling in a
sense the last three years
that I was in Brazil in the
sense that I had a spirit guide
that was coming in and it was
an interesting phase in my life
because to a certain
degree we were isolated.
I was speaking Portuguese
but I was having an incredible
metaphysical awakening
and I was -- I had
the opportunity
to go visit sacred places.
I went to the Amazon River, I
went to the Andes Mountains.
I worked two weeks on and two
weeks off, so my two weeks
on were very often
in incredible places,
and my two weeks off were
pretty much devoted to study.
But they were also in amazing
energies and so at the same time
that I was studying gemstones
and experiencing their energy
I was studying the energy
of sacred sites and trying
to learn about these.
And so I had a spirit
guide that came in and I --
my pineal gland began to open
and I would see in
the etheric realm.
It was a bit frightening
at first and then I began
to understand it better.
But we would see -- and I speak
we, Ann my wife was with me
at the time -- we
would often see members
of the [inaudible] Kingdom
and not always know exactly
how to interpret them.
And so after Brazil --
just to jump ahead to get
to Metatron -- we
moved to Africa.
We lived in Africa
for six years.
We went through three
Ku Di Ta's, were rescued
by the French Foreign
Legion, then had a variety
of experiences that taught
us the depths of fear
and taught me -- brought
me into my other area
that I consider a life lesson
that I now teach and that's how
to deal with psychic attack.
How to deal, how to
maintain our integrity.
Because during the times
that we were in Brazil
and in Africa we dealt
first hand with people
that were Voo Doo practitioners.
>> Regina: Yeah, witch doctors.
Yep.
>> James: Animism is the big
thing in Africa and so we sort
of had an on the job
training of how that worked
and at the same time we were
channeling and getting told what
to do and this employed
the gemstones.
And so I had knowledge
of exactly how
to keep the aura intact and
how the gemstones helped
in that process.
>> Regina: Did you start
noticing immediate effects once
you started implementing
the information?
>> James: And I started noticing
the absolute effects both
when it worked and
when it didn't.
And when an attack
would be launched on us,
very often from idea -- from
locations that we weren't aware
of and it would devastate you.
>> Regina: Because you weren't
necessarily a welcome guest
at all times among
these cultures.
>> James: Well and very
often the people that --
the source of the attack might
not come from where you think.
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: And there are
people that are energy takers
that may be among your
list of acquaintances.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: And there are people
that are unconscious
energy takers.
People that are medically
depressed become energy takers.
People that are control freaks
and that's usually
where it comes from.
Attached to your solar plexus.
And I learned this through
the Carlos Castaneda books;
exactly the mechanics
of how it works.
So people that dominate,
people that are trying
to sell you something, people
that are authoritarian figures.
But also people who are
manically depressed.
People who are imbalanced
are going to take energy.
And so I had to learn
from the ground up how
to protect the energy
field and how
to prevent attachments
of thought forms.
The other thing that often
happens in auric integrity is
that is your own though
forms coming back to roost
that will attach to your field.
If you are a person that gets
into major conflicts a lot,
even if you're right
and you put out a lot
of emotional negative
energy that thought is going
to go somewhere and can
become like a Ping-Pong bang.
But that large thought form
will eventually come back home
and you have to deal with it
and so there's a whole science
to auric integrity
that employs gemstones.
And also speaks a bit
about what can happen
at the differing
energies at sacred sites.
You can go to certain sacred
sites that are so powerful
like Sedona that if this is
not your normal energy to be
in it can create an auric
implosion after a few days.
>> Regina: Everybody who
lives here understands
if you're not suited to it, it
will as they say, chew you up
and spit you out really fast.
>> James: And then same
thing can happen in places
like Arkansas where you have
enormous crystal fields.
If you're someone who works
around crystals a lot,
you have a certain amount of
time to develop an auric sheath.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> James: And if you
develop that sheath you have
to also make sure that
you stay in balance.
If you don't develop that sheath
you're going to bleed energy
or you're going to have
arc short circuitry.
You can become eccentric.
You're going to lose
your balance.
And a lot of people that
come here loft so high
without remembering to keep
their feet on the ground.
>> Regina: You mean
here in Sedona or...
>> James: Sedona.
>> Regina: ...yes indeed.
>> James: Sedona or Arkansas.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: You need a high
area -- high energy area.
And Arkansas is a unique energy.
It's almost totally quartz
so it's a little bit
different than here.
>> Regina: Hmm-mm.
>> James: And so there's a
lot of tie ins to power nodes
as to auric maintenance
and the use of gemstones.
>> Regina: let's just briefly go
back to Metatron for one moment.
so Metatron's are coming in.
>> James: Metatron's started --
well I continue this path
of learning, for 33 years,
and I was a metaphysical
student and with a lot
of on the job training as I told
you we got caught in a Ku Di Ta,
they burned down
the city around us.
We were rescued by the
French Foreign Legion.
And so we dealt with the
devastation of energy from fear.
We were trapped in a
situation where people were --
hostages were being
taken and set on fire.
And we hid for three days
and there was that sense
of total fear, total despair.
And so I experienced
that as did my wife.
And our son was at that time
a little bit too young to have
to face it but -- so I went
through a great variety
of experiences and then when
I moved back to the states
in the late-90's I
started having this urge
to do a vision quest.
I started having dreams of a
Native American that was coming
to me and telling me that I
needed to do a vision quest.
I didn't really know
what one was
and after this appearance
continued
for about six months I
decided to do it and so
for the next four years I
did five day vision quests.
So I found myself in London
at the -- on a business trip.
And we were talking
earlier about dealing
with psychic attacks and we
dealt with the African Shamans,
the Brazilian Shamans
and as I started getting
into the corporate management
side I met the real masters
of psychic attack [laughter].
>> Regina: [Laughter] You bet.
>> James: In the
corporate world.
>> Regina: [Laughter]
Corporate world.
>> James: People who
were control freaks...
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: ...and absolutely
thought the world...
>> Regina: And have no fear.
>> James: And would
intimidate people.
And you know and so that was
a really interesting lesson
as well.
And then you would deal with
the international aspect of it.
Because I worked for a French
company and I was a minority
as an American and then
you learn, you know,
the nuances of what
nationalities feel
about one another [laughter].
And you had to learn
how to be diplomatic.
You had to learn the concerns
that other people perhaps --
and my wife being
British, you know,
you would hear what certain
nationalities really think
about American's [laughter].
You know?
>> Regina: Right exactly.
>> James: Through closed doors.
>> Regina: Being
married to a Brit...
>> James: Right exactly.
>> Regina: ...myself,
I'm well aware of that.
>> James: And so it was an
interesting lesson and I,
you know, would very
often have an Italian boss
or an Egyptian boss and you'd
learn all the different nuances
of what -- you know, of
how we were all the same
but at the same time how certain
religions and ethnics groups
and nationalities had different
opinions of one another.
And so it was a balancing to
learn how to deal with those.
But in London -- I spent a lot
of time in London and I would
on weekends go to
the psychic fair
that they would have
almost every weekend.
And so there were some brilliant
readers there in those days.
This was in the '90s.
And a lot were from India
and extremely talented.
And they -- this
first lady to tell me
about this Native American was
a lady from Bombay, now Mumbai.
Brilliant palmist and
really, really good.
And I had some amazing -- I
worked in India for a while just
to skip back -- and I had --
every hotel had an astrological
-- had an astrologist.
And I think I had a $10 reading
one time with an astrologer
in Bombay that I found about
three years or four years later
that was unbelievable
in its accuracy.
And so I was told about
this Indian, I went --
I found myself later in
Singapore had another reading,
told about this Native American.
>> Regina: So the
Indian keeps coming up?
>> James: It keeps
coming up and so...
>> Regina: Now are we talking
Native American or East Indian?
>> James: It was
Native American.
>> Regina: Native American.
Okay.
>> James: And so finally
I got on the internet,
found someone I thought that
could offer me the opportunity
to -- and what they were telling
me in the vision was fast.
That's what I was getting; fast.
And so I started
doing a five day fast.
And then I did it with
someone that I basically --
I just wanted someone
to keep an eye on me.
I wanted to go to a power
node, fast for five days
and see what happened.
And I did that.
and the first year that I did it
I did it here and I lost weight
and not much else happened.
The second year I did it
on Yaqui Native American
reservation in Tacate,
Mexico and it was
a barren dust bowel
and the wind blew 50 miles
an hour the entire time.
My eyes were full of
dust, my nose and my hair
and it was really
quite difficult
and I did not have a vision.
And then the next year came
around and I prepared my prayer
of tithes and I went up on the
mountain and it was in December
and it was here in the Redrock
National Forest on Shamans Dome.
>> Regina: In Sedona.
>> James: And it was
snowing and there was --
I had my blanket
an my sleeping bag
and I'd taken a week vacation
and I'm wondering what
in the heck I'm doing
out here on the ground.
Why am I doing this?
And on the fourth day it had
snowed all night and then I woke
up happy to see the sun come
out because despite the snow
it would get fairly comfortable
during the day time.
And I woke up and I saw a Native
America sitting in front of me,
the one that had
come in my dreams.
And he had a mountain
lion with him.
And energy just rolled
up my arms.
And my first thought was,
"My God I'm having a
vision [laughter]."
>> Regina: Uh-huh.
>> James: And I closed my
eyes and he didn't go away.
And we began communicating.
He told me his name
was Redfeather.
And he told me to come
with him and I got up
and we walked together up
on top of shamans dome.
Halfway there he was gone.
I didn't see him again.
And when I got to the top I had
my first out of body experience
and I actually flew over the
valley, saw things in reality,
in 3D I saw cars moving,
I saw people waking up
and turning on their lights.
And it was astonishing.
And so I did that and that
was a real breakthrough.
I had done the LSD experience
when I was in my early 20's.
I was an athlete in university
so I never smoked,
I never drank and...
>> Regina: So you'd done
a lot of preparation.
>> James: I did a
lot of preparation.
>> Regina: Decades
really to get to the point
where this [inaudible]
could occur.
>> James: And so I did a vision
quest the next year on top
of the San Francisco Peaks
and had an extraordinary
out of body experience
and vision.
And in that vision I was
told to go to South America
and do [foreign word].
And I did.
I went to Bolivia and I had
a remarkable coincidentally
meeting with someone that turned
out to be the college roommate
of the attorney who
was our human resources
vice-president [laughter].
And he took me at 7,000 --
17,000 feet on a mountain
outside of Lapaz, Bolivia,
a volcano and I had an
astonishing experience.
And that was my first
encounter with Metatron.
And he told me to come
back six months later,
which I didn't want to
because [foreign word] is an
extraordinary experience, but
you have to prepare for it.
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: And I want
to clarify here
that I am not advocating
it for everyone.
>> Regina: We just interviewed
Graham Hancock recently...
>> James: Yes.
>> Regina: ...and talked
about that for quite a bit.
>> James: And it was an
astonishing experience for me.
At one point I was
aware of being
in three places at one time.
And what it actually did for
me was rewire the connection
between my conscious mind
and my subconscious mind
that allowed doors to
open that stayed open.
And so when the experience
was complete --
and I did it five times
over a period of two years.
I was able to work
in etheric realms
with a higher version of myself.
I was able to carry an energy
that earlier I would not have
been capable of carrying.
And so that's how Metatron
started to come in.
>> Regina: Okay and we could --
we could go on quite
a bit about that.
That you have learned so much in
your relationship with Metatron
and also through
your open gateways.
>> James: Yes.
>> Regina: And your
own experience
with the earth and the minerals.
And so because we
are -- we have --
we're at a finite time frame
right now, let's go back then
to what Metatron was telling
you that may have overlaid some
of the Casey materials about
the gemstone and their interface
with the human consciousness...
>> James: Absolutely.
>> Regina: ...bearing
and so forth.
>> James: The key thing
that I teach, that I learned
through this experience is that
there is a misconception I think
for many people that
the human auric field is
automatically managed.
It is not.
It requires maintenance.
And there are keys
and responsibilities
to maintaining our auric field
in the new energy of 2013.
The energy of the earth is
higher than it was in 2012
and it will continue to
increase not just in terms
of the human resonance
but also in terms
of the anionic to canonic ratio.
All of the solar storms that
are bombarding our earth have
changed that ratio and
that ratio has been proven
in certain scientific tests to
create psychoactive experience.
I take the same data that the
universities have garnered
and draw a different conclusion.
Their conclusion may be
that an anionic ratio change
creates hallucinations.
Therefore the hallucinations
are not real.
I take those studies and say
that the anionic ratio change
opens doors within the pineal,
and allows us to have
multi-dimensional experiences.
And so that is happening
all over the planet now
because of the solar winds.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> James: Because of the
billions and billions...
>> Regina: Huge solar
blasts that have occurred.
>> James: Anionic charges that
are now coming around the earth.
It has been proven that
a six to one anionic
to canonic ratio
opens the pineal.
>> Regina: And what
are we at now?
Is that what it's
kind of hitting?
>> James: Well it is increasing.
NASA has photographs
of jet streams
of anoint plasma circulating
the earth and one of the places
that they seem to be
stationary is Sedona, Arizona.
The Sonoran Desert.
All the way up to
the Grand Canyon.
>> Regina: And so
what does that mean?
>> James: That this place is
becoming even more powerful.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: But at the same
time it is a crucible.
Sedona is not a place that many
people can necessarily come
to for extended period of time
without major adjustments.
If you come here you're going to
deal with what needs to be dealt
with and that's not always fun.
You are going to see what
doesn't serve you and while
that may not be fun
it is why we are here.
We have to face out obstacles,
we have to face our challenges.
Because otherwise we can't
-- cannot transcend them.
But it is not always fun.
We have to see our
own imperfections
and very often we're required
to work them out with a partner.
And so it can be a
conflictory relationship
but at the same time
with purpose.
And that is the energy
of Sedona.
Sedona...
>> Regina: That's interesting.
>> James: Yeah.
>> Regina: People that
live here I've been --
I came here originally
in 2000...
>> James: Yeah.
>> Regina: And then left for
a few years and came back
to the same house
as a matter of fact.
And the one thing that everyone
talk about is do not take --
move to Sedona with
your partner.
You will lose your partner.
That relationship will be over.
And we've seen that again, and
again, and exactly what you say.
Where people couldn't handle
the stress that it brings
to the table and the
relationships blow apart.
But then you usually
find someone you're more
in alignment with.
>> James: Right.
And there is often a purpose too
in the relationship that ends.
>> Regina: Absolutely.
>> James: Very often it --
the displeasure the other
partner may see and report back
to you makes you aware
of a characteristic you may
want not to carry into...
>> Regina: Exactly.
>> James: ...the
next relationship.
>> Regina: So we could talk
a while about that one.
But let's just say --
suffice to say that's true.
>> James: Well let me say
that there is also a
eighth century prediction
from a Tibetan Lama that
said at the time that the --
at the time that the eagle
flies, that the iron eagle flies
and the mountain lion runs on
wheels, the Dharma will return
to the land of the red man."
And so this is what we felt that
this [foreign word] was about.
That it is time in 2013
that the truth comes back
to the -- this part of...
>> Regina: The four corners.
>> James: Yeah.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: The red lands.
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: To this part of
America to disseminate all
around because it
has often been said
that America is a
corporation based on profit.
People have lost
their sovereignty
that people are not citizens
they're employees and it is
in a place like this that
the truth is revealed
and people being
to ask for more.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> James: People -- the
truth can no longer be hidden
in shadows.
And so I think Sedona will
emerge, is emerging as one
of the most important centers
for North America
replacing perhaps Mt. Shasta
in that regard.
For a while it was Shasta
and it actually had a
stronger energy than Sedona.
I think that is flip flopping
back for a different purpose.
Not to say that Shasta is
not incredibility powerful.
>> Regina: it is.
>> James: I've had
astonishing experiences there.
>> Regina: Yes.
Absolutely.
>> James: But I think there is a
role-taking place in Sedona now
that was not here
a few years ago.
>> Regina: I would
agree with that
and there are times
to go away...
>> James: Yes.
>> Regina: ...and there
are times to go back.
And it seems as though we
have reentered Sedona right
on queue...
>> James: Yes.
>> Regina: ...for this
incredible potentization
of energies which I love.
I like bathing in it.
Now Sedona's full of
gem shops [laughter].
>> James: Yes.
>> Regina: Gem and
mineral and quartz shops.
>> James: And the key to
Sedona is auric maintenance.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> James: If you come
to Sedona and you
for example have
a hertz enfield --
and this is a random number
-- in your aura of 10 hertz
and you come to an area
that is suddenly 100 hertz;
what's going to happen?
There will be a mechanical
equalization in which --
and this is physics,
this is engineering.
If there is an Ovid surrounded
by a higher pressure
we'll implode.
And so your auric field
will rupture if you come
from another place and
you come to a great place
of greater intensity it
will absolutely rupture,
it will mechanically equalize
so that the higher
energy can come in.
But in that process
you will bleed energy.
You will lose the appropriate
and requisite circuitry
of your auric field.
How do you deal with that?
Gemstones are energy batteries.
And so I have developed
what I believe
to be an ancient knowledge
that I call metatronic shield
and that is on one hand you wear
a single refractive gemstone.
There is only three single
refractive gemstones...
>> Regina: What are they?
>> James: ...on the planet.
Diamond. Garnet.
And Spinel.
>> Regina: And what?
>> James: Spinel.
>> Regina: Spinel.
>> James: S-P-I-N-E-L.
It's very similar to a ruby
except its single refractive.
>> Regina: Okay.
So that is on the -- which hand?
>> James: That generally
starts out on the left hand.
>> Regina: Left hand.
>> James: Where you wear -- most
people wear their wedding band.
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: And interestingly
most females have a diamond
which is a single refractive
stone and so on the left hand.
>> Regina: Okay, now let's
look at the right hand.
>> James: On the right hand --
and let me also put
in the caveat
that after a while you can
switch these intuitively
after you develop
the relationship
with the living consciousness
that exists within
that gemstone.
Because they are
crystalline beings.
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: It is a collective
organized energy and one
of the mistakes a lot of people
make is they do not recognize
gemstones as members
of the mineral kingdom.
They are the most sophisticated
members of the mineral kingdom
and they operate in
more compact centers.
But so the fir- -- the three
single refractive are diamond,
garnet and Rhodolite --
or I'm sorry, diamond,
garnet and spinel.
Rhodalite is a type
of garnet [laughter].
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: Everything else
is double refractive.
>> Regina: Everything else?
>> James: Everything else
is double refractive.
Now, on the rings, the
rings have requirements.
The single refractive as a
diamond must be 2 carats.
Not in total carat weight.
>> Regina: now people
are thinking ah,
garnet sounds a little
better than a diamond.
>> James: The garnet
comes into play.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: So does the spinel.
But, here is another thing.
Diamonds are not as expensive as
people think if they break away
from the jewelry retail...
>> Regina: Yeah.
eBay.
>> James: I mean interestingly
there are certain groups
who seem to have traditionally
controlled the diamond market.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> James: And it's the Dutch.
I mean almost all the
gemstones in Brazil are...
>> Dutch-American.
Yeah.
>> James: ...controlled by
Amsterdam Saur or Hans Stern.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: And then you
have the DeBeers group...
>> Regina: DeBeers.
>> James: ...controlling
diamonds.
And so there's a cartel that
fixes the prices on diamonds.
But if you get outside of
that you can find diamonds
at astonishing values.
I'm going to give the listeners
here and viewers a tip; eBay.
>> Regina: Yeah [laughter].
I heard you say that
the other day.
>> James: eBay.
>> Regina: Okay [laughter].
>> James: And that
sounds shocking at first
but if you make sure you
have a seven day return
on that purchase and,
you know, how to --
and you have to have the
ability to refract the stone
with a refractometer to make
sure it is what they say it is.
You can get some amazing deals.
>> Regina: So we're
looking at two carats
if we can find a diamond
or a garnet or a spinel,
and everything else on
the other hand is...
>> James: The garnet
must be three carats.
>> Regina: The garnet
three carats.
Okay.
>> James: And the spinel
must be three carats.
>> Regina: Three carats.
>> James: Because they
are not as powerful...
>> Regina: Okay.
>> James: ...as the diamond.
>> Regina: And now let's
talk about technology
on the right hand
with everything else.
>> James: Everything else is
double refractive and that --
this is really where you should
go into the [inaudible] system.
I recommend starting off
with a birthstone or a stone
that you are happy with.
Amethyst should be -- and all of
the colored stones really need
to be at least three carats.
Three to five carats.
But that can be an Amethyst,
it can be a ruby, it
can be a sapphire.
Ruby and Sapphire
are the same thing.
They are just simply
different colors of kerendon.
Citrine.
>> Regina: Topaz.
>> James: Topaz.
Emerald, Tourmaline.
>> Regina: Okay.
so basically all the
other semi-precious
and precious stones.
>> James: Right.
>> Regina: Three carats
on the right hand.
>> James: Three to five carats.
>> Regina: Three to five.
>> James: And the other thing
with the metatronic shield,
you should wear metal
on each wrist.
The body is symmetrical.
And so when you're
working with auric flow --
and that is why we're
talking about these gemstones.
If you're buying these
gemstones as a vanity,
as an ego boost,
buy the fake stuff.
Because, you know, that's -- if
that's the way you're looking
at them it's inappropriate.
What you need to
recognize with gemstones is
that they are energy tools.
Metatron says that the
reason that women live longer
than men is because
they wear gems.
And that these are energy tools
and they will absolutely not
only fortify your auric field
from the bombardments
of microwaves,
from the incredible
stress and --
or depletion of airplane
travel which is...
>> Regina: I'm on twice a week.
>> James: Shorter
flights are not as bad.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: But when you
fly like you know some
of the international speakers
we had at [inaudible].
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: 14, 15-hour flights.
Your husband's British...
>> Regina: It's pretty brutal.
>> James: It depletes
the auric field
because the flight takes
place at 38,000 feet
above the 30,000 limit
of the human resonance
where the stratosphere starts.
NASA has discovered that the
human organs depend on the pulse
of 7.8 Hertz of the
human resonance.
And as the human
resonance increases
so will our regulation to it.
But when you're outside of
that it throws off the organ
function, the glandular function
and the aura becomes
depleted for a few days.
>> Regina: Well you
can tell that.
You feel totally trashed
when you get off the plane.
>> James: Absolutely.
There are certain things
you can do to minimize that.
I recommend -- I will have
recommendations in my book
about what to wear
for air travels,
how to deal with that air
travel and in fact, you can read
that on my website now free.
And all my articles...
>> Regina: Earthkeepers.com?
>> James: Earth-keeper.com.
if you look under the earth
keep chronicles I have 70
or 80 articles and channels
on there, one of which talks
about auric maintenance.
It goes into this.
>> Regina: Okay,
now you were talking
about wearing metal on your...
>> James: Metal on each...
>> Regina: ...both sides.
>> James: ...wrists.
>> Regina: Does it
matter what kind of metal?
>> James: It can be any --
and each metal has
a different purpose.
Gold is the most noble.
Platinum is even
better than gold
but who can afford
platinum these days.
>> Regina: Who can
afford gold [laughter]?
>> James: [Laughter]
Palladium...
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: ...is less expensive
than gold or platinum.
It's very good but you can't get
it in jewelry form very often.
But you can buy bullion
bars of it and have it made.
And so silver is
very, very good.
Copper is very good.
Brass is very good.
Steel, stainless
steel was recommended
by Edgar Casey one
time as being able
to prevent viruses
and the common cold.
>> Regina: Interesting.
So you want to have
them equally balanced...
>> James: Yes, yes.
>> Regina: ...on each wrist.
You want to have
bracelets on each wrist.
>> James: Yes and it's
interesting in the --
in some of the ancient
worlds, in the Islamic
and Hindu lands they will keep
count of a 14 day rising moon
by having 14 bracelets
and then moving them
over one day at a time.
>> Regina: Oh, interesting.
>> James: But the
idea would be balance.
>> Regina: Okay.
>> James: And it
can be a combination
of any of the metals.
They're all conductive.
>> Regina: Okay, now let's get
into also some of
the other ones.
Yes.
>> James: The pendant.
>> Regina: Yes.
>> James: Lapis Lazuli
is the stone recommended
by Edgar Casey more
than any other stone
in all of his readings.
More than 980 times.
Lapis Lazuli is a
conglomerate crystal, is opaque,
it does not pass light
through it but it puts
out an incredible pulse and it
is important the Lapis Lazuli
which by definition
will have Pyrite in it.
Pyrite is a crystalline
metal that occurs
in hexagonal cubes even
at the molecular level.
So you want to see those
little sparkles of fools good,
Pyrite is a brilliant metal.
It is very beneficial for
the human aura and it occurs
in Lapis Lazuli, the navy blue.
And Lapis Lazuli
is not expensive.
>> Regina: Not it's not.
>> James: It's very affordable.
But I do recommend that
the Lapis Lazuli pendant be
at least 15 grams.
There are five carats to a
gram so you want to make sure
that you get a 45-carat piece
and quite honestly
I recommend it be
in more than that; 20 to 25.
>> Regina: So you want a
fairly large piece of it.
And that can hang
anywhere on the chest?
>> James: It can
be right around --
anywhere from between
the neck and chest.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> Regina: Okay.
>> James: And with a noble metal
can be silver or gold chain.
And to carry the Lapis Lazuli.
But Lapis Lazuli is probably
the most important stone
of this part and it is huge.
Lapis comes out of the
Himalayas and out of Chile.
And it is the corner
stone of the --
or the apex of the
metatronic shield.
The metaronic shield
is affordable.
There are great places to
get gemstones and in some
of my seminars I teach
people how to buy diamonds.
To break out of the retail mode.
But I also teach them
to make communication
with the mineral kingdom
and contact the diamond
to become available
to you and that works.
>> Regina: Absolutely...
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> James: It's like
communicating with plants.
You communicate with minerals
and you call the diamond to you.
I have incidences of finding
five carat diamond rings
for a tenth of what
they would retail for.
>> Regina: Okay.
so we have to talk to
the kingdom itself.
Now we have the balancing, we
have the right and left hand,
the right and left wrist.
We have the pendant.
Give us some ideas of
some other gemstones
and their specific kinds of uses
for say anxiety and depression.
>> James: Well there are
certain stones and a lot
of the information
I provide comes
from the Edgar Casey readings...
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: ...which is a
cornerstone of credibility.
Others...
>> Regina: I agree.
>> James: ...are just
short of my own --
I have had a fascination
with gemstones for 40 years
and I worked with mounds...
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: ...of them in Brazil.
And I communicate with them.
I can communicate with
gemstones and I can look
at two different Amethysts
that have almost exactly the
same color saturation level
and understand their
different attributes.
And that is not anything
you need to be --
anyone who makes
an attempt to work
with them, to understand them...
>> Regina: They will
speak to you.
Yes.
>> James: They will speak
to you and you will hear it.
And it is just a -- gemstones
are amazing form of life.
>> Regina: So it is...
>> James: And...
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: ...one
other fantastic place
to get gemstones is
at the Tucson mall.
>> Regina: Oh you bet,
that's where I go.
Tucson gem and mineral show for
10 to 20 cents on the dollar.
Beautiful quality.
>> James: Beautiful pieces.
And you know there's a
few things that you need
to know and, you know.
But you can get great --
you know generally speaking
you have to buy in volume...
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: ...to get the deals.
But not always.
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: And they're
certainly less expensive
than what you're going
to get at jewelry stores.
The minute a gemstone is in
a pre-mount that value --
that cost is at least tripled.
>> Regina: Exactly.
>> James: You know.
>> Regina: Okay, so
let's talk about it.
What are some of the
other stones that Casey...
>> James: Some other stones
that are absolutely unique.
The Emerald -- and this
-- I wear an Emerald.
The emerald is recommended
as the most important
gemstone for healers.
And that is because the
information that I receive is
that -- and Casey recommended
that as the most
important stone for healing.
And I believe that when you are
a healer the Emerald helps keep
you from taking on the energy
of those that you are healing
or giving away too much
of your vital life force.
In other words it enables you
to channel the energy you send,
and not deplete your own banks
of energy in working with them.
>> Regina: Okay.
>> James: so the Emerald
is a very important stone.
The garnet.
There are two types of stones
that have color change
properties.
One is an Alexandrite
which is a form of crysbro
and the other is the garnet.
Color change garnets, which
go from blue to red depending
on whether you are
in conventional lighting
or in sunlight.
And the Alexandrite I believe
that these stones help you
develop the ability uniquely
to work in higher forms of
ultra violet consciousness.
Ultra violet light.
They help you with your
multi-dimensional aspects.
Gemstones occur in more than
the visible light spectrum just
as we do.
We occur -- we exist
in all spectrums
of dimensionality
as do gemstones.
And so gemstones --
there's certain gemstones
that really help you in
which you might det- --
call meditation, astral travel,
bilocation, and the ability
to be aware of higher self and
at the same time stay grounded.
That is the color
change Spessartite Garnet
and the Alexandrite.
>> Regina: Okay.
>> James: the Alexandrite's
are way expensive.
$30,000 a carat now.
>> Regina: Oh my.
>> James: Because
they're just so rare.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: But they
go from a teal green,
a beautiful teal green to
purple and they're astonishing.
Oh my gosh.
>> Regina: Now in
ancient times the Pharos
and such always had these
such incredible stones
embedded in their head ware.
>> James: Right.
>> Regina: For example.
And that was for purpose.
>> James: Absolutely.
>> Regina: that wasn't
for vanity
and Lapis Lazuli
played large, as well.
>> James: Lapis Lazuli, Ruby.
>> Regina: Ruby.
>> James: And Amethyst.
I'm not sure if you watch the
television series  The Tudors .
There was...
>> Regina: No, I haven't.
>> James: Oh my.
>> Regina: Everyone
says it's good.
I just haven't gotten there.
>> James: It's brilliant.
>> Regina: Yeah.
>> James: But one of
the most amazing things
about it is the way
that they show all
of the royals wearing
these incredible...
>> Regina: Gems.
>> James: Gems and gold
chains that were heavy and all
of the kings, all of the
royals had the crowns,
had the choker necklaces and the
heavy gold draping ornamental
medals that they wore
as part of their office.
If they were a bishop,
if they were a secretary
within the court.
All the corazones had
identifying chains
that were an inch in
thickness and looked
like they probably weighed
a kilo laden with gemstones.
>> Regina: And still
in the church.
>> James; And...
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> James: Some in the church,
some in the government.
And the church still does that.
The czars, the pope's, the
pharos always wore gemstones.
The Ruby has been recognized
since ancient days
as a strength giver.
And the other piece about
maintaining the auric field
in great stability is that
when you have an auric field
that is stable, that operates
at the appropriate circuitry you
can increase the level of energy
that you carry within it so
that you don't go to places
where there is a differential
interruption will occur.
If you stay in Sedona long
enough and you're able
to not become eccentric, not
lose -- not get caught up in ego
or not get caught
up in the other end
of depression then you
will develop an auric field
that is stronger and
carries a tremendous field.
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: But you still
have to maintain that.
But when you carry that higher
capacitor, that higher capacity
within the auric
capacitor you are able
to manifest your
reality more effectively.
>> Regina: Absolutely.
>> James: And that is how
gemstones play a role.
They are energy batteries
that allow you
to keep you auric field
intact and create your life.
People say 2012 has
come and gone.
What's next?
What's next is we have
to co-create the earth.
We see so many things around
us that need changing.
We see elementary
school massacres.
We see people who
can't get medical care.
We see many things in North
America that need changing.
So how do we do it?
We aggressively join together
and meditate toward highest good
and when we carry an intact
aura the ability to go
into coherent theta, because of
gemstones as our stabilizers,
allows us to join
together and co-create.
The Rand Corporation
out of California,
one of the most respect
auditing think tanks
in the world absolutely
confirmed that in a test done
in the early-2000's when 700
people mediated together toward
lessening crime that the
crime rate absolutely...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> James: ...was reduced.
>> James: Imagine what can
happen when we have thousands
of people meditating
together toward world peace.
>> Regina: Absolutely.
>> James: And highest good.
>> Regina: Absolutely
and I have one --
I have a question in here.
Now we only have about
five minutes left.
Let's take this in
reverse for a moment.
Less people think
this is not important.
>> James: Right.
>> Regina: Let's talk
about what happens
when your aura is thinned
out, drained, and shot through
and through, full of holes.
This is as important as
the skin on your body.
>> James: You -- that's an
absolutely excellent question
and a valid point.
It is our etheric body,
it is our spiritual body,
and if you don't maintain
it you will bleed energy.
And there are a lot
of things that do --
that we have to be aware of that
we talk about on the website.
Micro -- you know, cell
phones, a lot of times in front
of laptop and I recommend stones
that help counter that; Malecite
and Meteorite actually will
deflect the field of a laptop.
But if you allow
your auric field
to deplete it will
affect your health.
It is the core source
of all disease.
Whether it leads to just chronic
fatigue, whether it just leads
to emotional highs
and lows or anxieties.
Depending if the rupture
-- how deep it is.
You absolutely must
take the responsibility
of maintaining your auric
field in order to be integral.
In order to be whole.
In order to be a
creator of your life.
And what is the purpose of
life according to Metatron?
To learn how to be a
responsible creator.
>> Regina: Absolutely.
Okay we have just a
couple minutes left now.
And we were going to
talk a little bit more
about sacred spots.
There are so many lovely spots.
But now you're down
to a bullet list.
Give us a bullet list now if
we have some vacation money
and we're drawn to
some of the top sites
in the world right now
in terms of potency.
>> James: Well I'll
speak about the ones --
we do two pilgrimages
a year and I'll talk
about the one we just returned
from Los Torres del
Piney in southern Chile.
Patagonia, Chile is
absolutely amazing.
It is a massive,
off of the Andes.
It is beautiful.
It has -- it looks a
lot like Vampth, Canada.
>> [Multiple speakers].
>> James: Just returned
from Easter Island.
Amazing place.
>> Regina: Lemurian.
>> James: Lemurian, called
the navel of the world.
It is on the precession
of the equinoxes
according to Graham Hancock.
[Inaudible], stunning.
We are about to take a
group to the other navel
of the world, Delphi, Greece.
And it is interesting
they're both
on the procession
of the equinox.
There's one is southern
hemisphere,
[Background Music]
one is northern.
And of course Ireland.
The U.K. is just shock full
of amazing energy places
from Rosalyn Chapel which
is one of the most...
>> Regina: Right.
>> James: ...powerful
centers on the planet.
>> Regina: I've been there.
Amazing.
>> James: To Glastonbury.
>> Regina: [inaudible]...
>> James: The 51st
parallel goes right
through so many of these places.
You know, [inaudible],
Skellig Michaels in Ireland
and you know Russian,
Lake Bicol is one
of the most powerful
places on the planet.
Hawaii is very powerful.
>> Regina: Do you have
any of this on your site?
>> James: Yes.
I have...
>> Regina: Okay we'll go with
that because we're out of time.
>> James: ...on my website...
>> Regina: Yes.
>> James: ...a listing
of every sacred site
in the world [laughter].
>> Regina: Okay.
There we go [laughter].
>> James: Sure.
>> Regina: Thank you for
doing that for us [laughter].
And thank you so much for
your time and explaining this
about the aura and gemstones.
Very important conversation.
>> James: Thank you.
>> Regina: Thank you.
>> James: It was an
honor and a pleasure.
Thank you very much.
[ Music ]
[ Silence ]